How does a father feel
when he receives
an unexpected gift from his child?
Of course, his heart is warmed.
Why?
Because he sees this
as an expression of the child’s love for him.
Well, in a similar way,
our loving heavenly Father, Jehovah,
does not want
to force us to serve him.
He’s interested in our motives,
and he wants us to serve him out of love.
Why?
Because Jehovah
realizes that love has power.
It gives us the power
to make changes in our life.
And also, it helps us
to be able to overcome
temptations and opposition.
But that presents a challenge for us
when we’re conducting Bible studies.
How so?
Well, how can we develop
within the hearts of the Bible students
a love for Jehovah
without forcing them
or trying to put pressure on them?
Well, that’s something
that we need to think about.
During these talks, we’ve certainly enjoyed
this series of videos—haven’t we?—
that have helped us to see
how Jade has made progress
with her Bible study and how Neeta
has helped her all along.
When we think about this, we see
that Jade has made good progress
and she’s up to a point now
where she has a love for Jehovah.
In this final video, let’s watch how Jade
faces a very difficult problem
and we’ll see how her love for Jehovah
helps her to overcome this problem.
But, Mum, listen.
No, Jade, you listen!
Isn’t this just another
one of your phases?
It’s time to move on, Love.
The holidays are our time.
It’s all I get from you.
Promise me you’ll be here.
Promise!
I really don’t want to disappoint her,
but I can’t disappoint Jehovah.
Of course!
You love them both.
Don’t you think he can help you?
Talk to him.
I spent a long time
pouring out my heart to him.
And I remembered something
from one of the Psalms:
“I will walk in your truth.
Unify my heart
to fear your name.”
Yo, so tell me.
I remember someone once claiming
to be “all about the promises.”
Made any good ones lately?
Absolutely.
Well, that certainly was
a difficult problem, wasn’t it?
Her mother wanted to force her
to join her in a worldly holiday.
But what helped Jade?
As she said, it’s true
that she loves her mother
but she didn’t want
to disappoint Jehovah.
And notice, Neeta didn’t try to go through
all the pros and cons with her.
She realized that Jade
had a love for Jehovah,
and she just simply said,
‘Ask him for help.’
And Jehovah did help her.
So how can we make sure
that our Bible students
come to a similar point in their life,
where they love Jehovah?
Well, we find some help
with regard to that question
if we turn to the first book of John.
So, please, turn with me
to 1 John chapter 4,
and we’re going to read verse 8:
“Whoever does not love
has not come to know God,
because God is love.”
What is this telling us?
See, basically, it is saying
that if our Bible student
doesn’t love God,
that’s because they
haven’t really come to know God yet.
And if we turn the page to verse 19,
there’s a secondary point that’s mentioned.
It says: “We love,
because he first loved us.”
What does this highlight?
Well, for our Bible student to love Jehovah,
they need to come to know him
but also they need
to see his love in their lives.
So that puts a responsibility on us
to help them to identify Jehovah’s love
and then have this love
for Jehovah build in their hearts.
We can do that by asking questions, such as:
“How have you seen
Jehovah’s love in your life?”
or “What does this Bible account
teach us about Jehovah’s love?”
In other words, although we
are interested in explaining
what Jehovah has done
by highlighting what he does,
how he does it, and when he does it,
we would never want
to forget the vital question:
Why does he do something?
The answer is, because of his love.
And we help our Bible student to see that.
You see, Jehovah’s power
enables him to do things.
His wisdom helps him and guides him,
along with justice,
to do things the right way.
But what is it that motivates Jehovah?
It’s his love, isn’t it?
And asking the question
why Jehovah does things
helps to highlight that point.
So as we’re teaching our Bible students,
we need them to see
that Jehovah really does love them
and he wants them
to succeed in their life.
Also, we could perhaps share with them
some of the times when we personally
have experienced Jehovah’s love
—perhaps in the way
that Jehovah has answered our prayers.
But in connection with this,
there’s another scripture that can help us.
If you turn with me, please,
to the book of Isaiah
—Isaiah chapter 48,
and we’re going to look
at verses 17 and 18.
Isaiah 48:17, 18:
“This is what Jehovah says,
your Repurchaser,
“the Holy One of Israel:
‘I, Jehovah, am your God,
“‘the One teaching you to benefit yourself,
“‘the One guiding you
in the way you should walk.
“‘If only you would pay attention
to my commandments!
“‘Then your peace would become
just like a river
and your righteousness
like the waves of the sea.’”
Do you see the point
that’s being made here?
We need to help
our Bible students to understand
that Jehovah really wants the best for them
and he’s helping and guiding them
in the way that they should go.
And the end result
—we notice there in verse 18—
is that peace and righteousness
will be their reward.
Well, this truly is something
that can help the Bible student.
In fact, when they start to face the changes
that they need to make in life
if they have this love for Jehovah,
they won’t just view it
as something they have to do
in order to attain everlasting life.
No, they’ll view these things
as opportunities for them
to prove their love of Jehovah.
Well, what has this symposium shown?
As we’ve listened to the various talks
and watched the videos,
it’s helped us to see
various ways that we can help
our Bible students to make progress.
We realize that conducting
a Bible study and helping
someone to become a disciple
is not just a matter of reading
certain paragraphs in a book
or using certain techniques;
a lot more is involved.
What else?
Well, remember that the apostle Paul
was an experienced disciple-maker.
And let’s turn our Bibles
to the first book of Thessalonians,
and we’ll notice here
that under inspiration,
the apostle Paul tells us
what else is involved.
First Thessalonians chapter 2
and we’re going to read verses 7 and 8:
“On the contrary,
we became gentle in your midst,
“as when a nursing mother
tenderly cares for her own children.
“So having tender affection for you,
“we were determined to impart to you,
not only the good news of God
“but also our very selves,
because you became so beloved to us.”
Yes, we really need to care for these ones.
We need to nurture them
(help them) with the problems
and obstacles they face along the way.
And, yes, we need to become their friends.
Well, becoming a disciple-maker
is a challenging work.
There’s a lot involved with it,
but don’t feel overwhelmed.
You can do it with Jehovah’s help
and the help of Jesus Christ.
Remember when Jesus gave us a commission
to go and make disciples,
what else did he say?
“Look!
I am with you.”
Yes, with Jehovah’s help
and with the help of Jesus,
we can experience a wonderful joy.
What is that joy?
The joy of seeing a new disciple
learn to love Jehovah.